starknet/README.md, before:

# Hyperlane Starknet Core

The Hyperlane Starknet Core package provides TypeScript tooling for interacting with Hyperlane's Cairo contracts on Starknet. It includes TypeScript artifacts autogenerated from Cairo contracts developed in collaboration with Astraly Labs.

## Features

- Pre-compiled Cairo contract ABI artifacts
- TypeScript bindings for Starknet contracts

## Installation

```bash
# Install with NPM
npm install @hyperlane-xyz/starknet-core

# Or with Yarn
yarn add @hyperlane-xyz/starknet-core
```

## Requirements

- Node.js 18 or newer
- For development: `curl`, `jq`, and `unzip` utilities

## Usage

```typescript
import {
  ContractType,
  getCompiledContract,
} from '@hyperlane-xyz/starknet-core';

// Get the Hyperlane mailbox contract
const mailboxContract = getCompiledContract('mailbox');

// Get token contracts
const tokenContract = getCompiledContract('erc20', ContractType.TOKEN);

// Get mock contracts
const mockContract = getCompiledContract('mock_validator', ContractType.MOCK);
```

## Contract Categories

Contracts are organized into three categories:

- `contracts`: Core Hyperlane protocol contracts
- `tokens`: Token implementation contracts
- `mocks`: Test and mock contracts

## Development

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `yarn install`

### Build Process

The build process combines multiple steps in a specific order:

```bash
yarn build
```

This command runs:

1. TypeScript compilation (`tsc`)
2. Fetching contract artifacts from GitHub (`fetch-contracts`)
3. Generating TypeScript ABI artifacts from Cairo contracts (`generate-artifacts`)

All build output is placed in the `dist` directory.

### Individual Build Steps

You can also run the individual build steps separately:

#### Fetching Contract Artifacts

```bash
yarn fetch-contracts
```

This downloads the contract artifacts from the [Hyperlane Starknet repository](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane_starknet).

#### Generating TypeScript Artifacts

```bash
yarn generate-artifacts
```

This creates JavaScript and TypeScript declaration files in the `dist/artifacts` directory.

## License

Apache 2.0

Commit message:

chore: added release generation (#6233)
### Description

This PR enables the generation of the contract files by building them
from source inside a docker container. This speeds up development by
allowing the developers to use any starknet contracts release by just
specyfing the version.

### Drive-by changes

-

### Related issues

-

### Backward compatibility

Yes

### Testing

Manual

---------

Co-authored-by: graphite-app[bot] <96075541+graphite-app[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Paul Balaji <10051819+paulbalaji@users.noreply.github.com>

starknet/README.md, after:

# Hyperlane Starknet Core

The Hyperlane Starknet Core package provides TypeScript tooling for interacting with Hyperlane's Cairo contracts on Starknet. It includes TypeScript artifacts autogenerated from Cairo contracts developed in collaboration with Astraly Labs.

## Features

- Pre-compiled Cairo contract ABI artifacts
- TypeScript bindings for Starknet contracts

## Installation

```bash
# Install with NPM
npm install @hyperlane-xyz/starknet-core

# Or with Yarn
yarn add @hyperlane-xyz/starknet-core
```

## Requirements

- Node.js 18 or newer
- For development: `curl`, `jq`, and `unzip` utilities

## Usage

```typescript
import {
  ContractType,
  getCompiledContract,
} from '@hyperlane-xyz/starknet-core';

// Get the Hyperlane mailbox contract
const mailboxContract = getCompiledContract('mailbox');

// Get token contracts
const tokenContract = getCompiledContract('erc20', ContractType.TOKEN);

// Get mock contracts
const mockContract = getCompiledContract('mock_validator', ContractType.MOCK);
```

## Contract Categories

Contracts are organized into three categories:

- `contracts`: Core Hyperlane protocol contracts
- `tokens`: Token implementation contracts
- `mocks`: Test and mock contracts

## Development

### Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies: `yarn install`

### Build Process

The build process combines multiple steps in a specific order:

```bash
yarn build
```

This command runs:

1. TypeScript compilation (`tsc`)
2. Fetching contract artifacts from GitHub (`fetch-contracts`)
3. Generating TypeScript ABI artifacts from Cairo contracts (`generate-artifacts`)

All build output is placed in the `dist` directory.

### Individual Build Steps

You can also run the individual build steps separately:

#### Fetching Contract Artifacts

```bash
yarn fetch-contracts
```

#### Building Contracts from Source

```
docker compose up
```

This builds the contracts from source and puts them under the `release` folder. You can specify
the commit or version from which the contracts should be built from. Note that this command
will overwrite the contents of the `release` folder if it already exists.

#### Generating TypeScript Artifacts

```bash
yarn generate-artifacts
```

This creates JavaScript and TypeScript declaration files in the `dist/artifacts` directory.

## License

Apache 2.0
